There was a plaque
that NASA had intended
to place on the moon with Apollo 11.
My father kept it
with him until the day he died.
It read.
"We came in peace for all mankind."
I carry these words with me today
as we touch the surface of another moon.
One that we reached
because of people like my father.
People like the brilliant engineers
and scientists on Mars.
who rebuilt and rehabilitated our ship.
And people like the scientists
who lost their lives aboard Kosmos-1.
We carry their memory with us.
as we take these steps towards
the search for life in our universe.
That was astronaut
Kelly Baldwin from the surface of Titan.
Good stuff. man.
Thank you.
That was wild. man.
Can you believe that?
It really seems
to have lifted everybody's spirits.
And requests for that transport
back have dropped by more than half.
It gave us new life.
Thanks to you. brother.
- No. it wasn't me. It was everyone.
- No. no. no. no. You're it. Miles.
Just like back in '03.
you always got our backs.
Follow you anywhere.
All of us would.
Thank you. brother.
Catch you later.
Milosh.
Ilya. what's up?
Someone wants to talk to you.
You won't want to listen. but you must.
For all our sakes. Milosh.
You must listen to what they have to say.
Will you do this. please?
All right. Who wants to talk?
After President Korzhenko is gone.
the M-6 will dissolve.
And the new Soviet government will be
more amenable to strike in a deal
with Independent Mars.
if you can hold out a few more weeks.
How did you hear about all this?
The only currency
in prison is information.
By that standard. I'm quite wealthy.
If you surrender
before Korzhenko is replaced.
his position will become stronger.
and all of this is for naught.
We're not surrendering.
Do not play coy.
This Titan landing was
a beautiful moment. I will grant you.
but the facts
on the ground remain the same.
Without food.
you must ask for a rescue ship from Earth.
and the only way they will send you one is
if you surrender. Completely.
Without condition.
That means you're going to jail.
All of you.
And so will we.
Well. how? You're on their side.
Look. I understand
why you're suspicious of us.
Of me.
This whole thing happened because of you.
How do I know you're not playing me right
now. like you have all of us for years?
I wish I were.
My family. Mr. Dale...
My wife. my son...
They are under threat back in the USSR.
My wife. she was made
to publicly denounce me.
My son. I have not heard
from him in over a month.
So yes. it may not be...
...solely idealism.
but I have to do
what I have to do to protect my family.
Even if it means going
against my government.
What are you not telling me?
Your embargo put the US
and Soviet economies in free-fall.
Bragg. Korzhenko. they must take action
to show their citizens
they're not powerless.
in order to stay in power themselves.
We have learned that there is
a multinational military force
from the M-6 that's
currently on the way to Mars.
And their order is
to retake the Kuznetsov Station
and the Goldilocks asteroid by force.
Bullshit. We'd have seen them by now.
As I learned many years ago.
some things you cannot see
until it's too late.
Please note the following
changes to the plan of action.
The key to the retaking
and occupation of asteroid 2003 LC
is the possession of this main substation.
Now our best intel indicates this approach
route shows the most promise for success.
Teams three and four will insert
here an assault through the substation.
clearing any opposition
using nonlethal means.
I say again. flash bangs and rubbers only.
We do not want
to risk any ruptures in there.
- Understood?
- Understood. sir.
Dismissed.
The fact
that you're all here is a promise.
A promise to protect
and defend the people of this base.
And while you will have authority
as officers of the Happy Valley Corps.
it is essential
that you not abuse that authority.
Anything that any of you do to contravene
that promise will result
in immediate dismissal.
Is that clear?
Yes. ma'am.
We have the chance
to start something new up here.
Something different.
And so we will go
about things differently.
We will lead with kindness.
We will help those who need help
no matter their allegiance.
their country of origin...
No matter their legal status.
Anyone who joins our cause is welcome.
You know. a year ago. I didn't
even know what the hell a Marsie was.
And now. looking at all of you.
I'm proud to call myself one.
All right. Before you get too excited.
we're gonna start
with a physical assessment
and then we'll get
right into weapons training.
Yes. Baldwin.
Um. I. uh...
I-I signed up for the Medical Corps.
Do I still need to do the weapons.
uh. training stuff?
Yeah. so every member of the HVC needs
at least a basic proficiency
with weapons "stuff."
Dismissed.
I have seen it
in the eyes of miners.
Returning from the asteroid
that circles ceaselessly overhead.
In the eyes of my fellow youth.
trapped here beneath the tubercular sky.
Earth. can you not hear
the lamentations of your children?
Hey.
Are you... Are you okay?
Sh-She... She never got to finish her film.
She barely even got started.
And she would still be here
if I didn't...
If I didn't make her do that stupid thing
for your fucking birthday.
Hey. Lil. That's not...
Hey. that was not your fault. okay?
You know it's true. She would
still be alive if it wasn't for me.
Jesus Christ. Come here. come here.
I'm sorry.
I know this is hard.
I wonder if maybe the best thing
for you right now is to...
You know. to go... Go away for a little bit.
You know? I mean.
things are just so bad right now.
What are you saying?
Well. I mean. you know. the...
There's that transport ship
that heads back to Earth in a few days.
- I just...
- What the hell. Alex?
No. don't-don't be mad. Lily.
Why would you say that?
Why?
You want me to leave? You want...
You want me to go away?
No. I don't.
Lily. I don't want you to leave.
I mean. I-I understand getting
this shit from my parents
and even my sister. but I don't...
Not you.
Why would you even suggest that?
I'm worried about you.
Okay. but...
I can take care of myself. you know.
- I know.
- Okay. just because you...
You put on that stupid...
...fucking pecker uniform...
- It's the Happy Valley Corps.
- Okay. whatever. I...
It doesn't mean
that you know what's best for me.
I never said that. I'm not saying that.
I know you can take care of yourself.
I know that.
Believe me. I am terrified of you. okay?
Okay. just don't talk
about me going back there ever again.
Okay.
Fuck that place. Have you seen
what they're saying about her?
No.
Oh. my God. "Insurgent"?
That's insane. She was dancing.
Such bullshit.
This is how they see us.
They want to paint us as...
...radicals or terrorists.
But that's not who we are.
We need to show them who we are.
What it actually feels
like to live up here.
Well. you know.
you're doing something to help. right?
Maybe I could too.
What are you... What are you doing?
Come on.
What are you...
Okay.
That dust storm might already be
interfering with Doppler's shift readings.
Are you seeing anything out there?
Negative. Nothing inbound
within range of our radar.
Intel. huh?
Where from?
Irina Morozova.
You're best friends with Irina now?
Who's next. North Korea?
I thought you weren't taking sides.
Pointing out that you're being naive is
common sense. not. uh. politics.
Nothing here either. Chief.
Looks like Irina gave you bad intel.
You sure?
She said it might be hard to find.
I mean. most militaries have
low-observable technologies. but. uh...
Shireen. see if you can redirect
the long-range radar
along the brute force trajectory.
uh. here.
That might pick up more than our arrays.
Also. reconfigure
the orbiter for Doppler tracking.
I. uh. noticed your name
was not on the manifest
for the transport back to Earth anymore.
Mm-hmm.
Only reason is Titan.
Until they're back safely.
I'm not going anywhere.
I appreciate that.
We all do.
That mission.
it means a lot to the people here.
Is this where you ask me
to join your council again?
Hang on.
Looks like radar's got something.
Well. it's consistent with a low RCS ship.
Doppler shift indicates
it's on track for Mars.
Best guess. three days out.
Fuck. just like they said.
They're coming for us.
We are not equipped
to fight off an invading force.
If they take back that asteroid.
we are fucked.
We're pretty much fucked anyway.
We have two weeks of food left.
That's all true.
If we make it through the next few weeks.
then we could cut a deal with the Soviets.
And then we'd have
a real shot at independence.
You really believe them. Miles?
I don't trust Lenya.
He's always been out for himself.
What they said checks out.
With his family back on Earth
under threat. he has no reason to lie.
Look. we have to do something.
otherwise we may as well all give up
and then everybody on this base is going
back to Earth in handcuffs.
probably for the rest of our lives.
And then everything we fought for.
everything the people
of Happy Valley have committed to.
it's... it's all for nothing.
So. what can we do?
In conflict...
Best way to keep the enemy
from landing your territory...
Destroy runway.
Runway? What the hell is he...
You mean
the docking platform on Kuznetsov?
Are you suggesting we...
What. we blow it up?
If we do destroy it.
they can't get any iridium off Goldilocks
even if they wanted to.
I mean. it's the choke point
of the whole operation.
So. the asteroid would be useless to 'em.
You'd need serious explosives
to destroy something that size.
We've got nothing
that powerful in the armory
or anywhere else
around here for that matter.
Palmer stole the last of our explosives.
And blew up all of our food.
We could manufacture liquid methane.
but not in two days.
Well. maybe we could improvise.
We could use fertilizer to make
ammonium nitrate and add it to hydrazine.
Can that really create that big a blast?
Depends on how you pack it.
I mean. it's almost as powerful as TNT. I...
The way it would work is.
you wire a blast cap.
kind of like a little firework.
to the mix.
And then turn it on.
add juice to the mixture and...
Heat the hydrazine.
Mmm.
I don't know.
It is very risky.
but we have no other choice.
Hmm?
Stewart said he cleaned you out
again last night.
Ever occur to you that maybe you're
just... not that good at poker?
Or maybe I'm
just playing the long con. huh?
Make him think I'm bad
before I go in for the kill.
Okay. so maybe I'm bad at poker.
I mean. what the hell else am I supposed
to do up here to pass the time?
It's boring as shit.
Seriously.
Hurry up and wait. right?
Yeah.
You doing okay?
I didn't say anything before. but I was
sorry to hear about the girl who died.
She was a friend of yours. right?
Yeah. Gully.
Gulsora Akilmatova.
The four of us. Uh. her. me. Lily. Alex...
spent. like. every second together.
I'm sorry.
Hey. you two.
Word from the LT is
our squad's been tasked
with a pre-invasion recon on the asteroid.
Haskell. they want you with me.
The brass wants
to know what you know about the asteroid.
Let's go.
Yes. sergeant.
Marsie.
Just remember which side you're on.
Fuck off. Orkie.
Any weapons on the asteroid?
No. sir. Not that I know of.
I was up there with my dad.
There was no security. no nothing.
How many in the mining crew?
About 80 or so.
Eighty?
Well. that...
That could have changed since then.
He's right on both counts.
Since '03 MPKs are the only ones
who've been authorized
to carry weapons on Kuznetsov.
However. there's just been
a small caretaking crew since the embargo.
Thank you. Lance Corporal.
- Dismissed.
- Aye. sir.
Sergeant Ruiz. your squad will infiltrate
Kuznetsov Station
to verify this information
in preparation for our occupying force
and take any remaining miners
on site into custody.
Aye. aye. sir.
Keep your ear to the ground. James.
Yes. sir.
Okay. we're gonna have eyes here.
So the seeker that sent us
the incomplete data stream
with signs of life is here
near the Forseti Crater.
and we were supposed to land
in this neighboring flood plain. yeah?
Okay. but we are presently here.
20 kilometers away.
which is outside our safe EVA range.
even in the buggy.
That seeker is the reason why we came.
To find proof of life.
But now we don't have
enough oxygen reserves to make it there?
What if...
instead of cramming four of us
into the buggy. we drop it to three?
That immediately gives us
a 33% increase in consumables.
I can run the numbers. but...
...it would be risky.
Look. we traveled
over 900 million kilometers to find life.
We're going to let the last 20 stop us?
Look. we can argue all we want.
but this is a command decision.
He's been in there for hours.
I'll talk to him.
Godspeed.
Walt.
Hey. Kelly.
Walt. we have an issue.
Our seeker is outside
mission safety parameters. but...
we think we can make the numbers work
with a little improvisation.
These logs confirm
that the correct delta-v burn was loaded
at T minus 4 minutes 35 seconds. I can't...
I can't find any errors in the code.
Walt?
Walt. we're here.
We've landed.
We can't just keep staying on the ship.
We came to find life.
Don't you want to do that?
Yes. of course I do.
But first. I... I need...
I need to know how I messed this up.
so it never happens again.
Look.
Hey.
They need you to lead.
I need you to lead.
You're right.
I know that you're right.
I'm. uh...
I'm so sorry.
No. no. it's-it's okay.
It's okay.
It's not.
It's not okay.
I could have killed everyone. Kelly.
- Don't you understand?
- No.
- If it hadn't been for you...
- No. it-it wasn't your fault.
It was. I. uh... I...
I-I fucked it up.
No. Fuck.
I. uh... I fucked it all up.
- Walt.
- I...
- I. uh...
- Walt. just stop and listen to me.
Okay. there's...
There's something I need
to tell you.
This was not on you. I...
Protected this whole crew
from my poor judgment.
No. that's not true.
I... I can't trust myself right now.
- Walt.
- I'm not...
I'm not thinking clearly.
and I need you to take the reins.
At least... At least for a while until
I figure out what went wrong here. okay?
Wait.
you want me to take over command?
Temporarily. yes.
You can't mean that.
Please.
Wait. wait one second.
Are you going to destroy it?
The asteroid.
Uh. no. just the platform they dock with.
How?
Well. we don't have enough time
to wire the platform.
so we're just gonna load down a hopper
with all the explosives we do have.
I'm-I'm sorry.
That cannot be the plan.
It's insane.
Well. nice to see you two agree
on something.
Look. pulling this off
with the platform. that's one thing.
but getting there in one piece.
that's a big ask.
Have you looked outside. huh?
There is a huge dust storm.
It's getting bigger by the moment.
and you want to take a hopper.
fill it with unstable explosives.
and fly it off into that?
Yeah. no. no.
That's a great idea.
If we want to blow the platform before
the M-6 come to take it. we gotta go now.
We've already evac'd
the crew that's up there to Phoenix.
Who would be crazy enough to fly this?
Frank Halloran volunteered.
and Max Howard is gonna be his copilot.
Actually. I'm gonna do it.
What?
Yeah. I'm not gonna ask someone else
to put their life on the line.
There's too much that could go wrong.
Well. that's exactly why you shouldn't be
doing it. We need you down here.
Look. Frank has a family.
They all have families waiting
for them to come home.
I don't have anyone.
I'm doing it. End of discussion.
I will go with Ms. Boyd.
It's a dangerous mission.
requires a copilot.
Are you crazy? It's suicide.
It's the only way it will work.
We appreciate the gesture.
but you haven't been
a cosmonaut for some time.
You know my situation. Mr. Dale.
My wife. my son...
I'm invested in this like you all.
Perhaps even more so.
This must work.
All right.
I hope your flying chops didn't atrophy
behind that desk.
Come on. let's get you up to speed.
Sergeant.
Yeah. what's up?
Uh. I. um...
I think it might be best
if you take Tollefson tomorrow.
She is better at zero g.
What are you talking about?
The recon mission. sir.
I'll be ready for the next one.
What.
you fucking with me. Jarrett?
No. sir.
This ain't an invitation. It's an order.
You got the brief and you know the plans.
Go get your gear.
I. um...
I don't know if I'm up for it.
Why the fuck not?
This about your dad?
I read your file.
Hey... most
of us have fucked-up families.
Otherwise. we wouldn't be here.
Yeah.
And my dad. he was...
He had real issues.
My grandpa too. and if that shit's in me
too. then I don't wanna...
I don't wanna let the team down.
Why are you only bringing this up now?
I thought I could bury it...
but the closer we get...
I'm not so sure if I can.
My dad was a fucking drunk.
Had a real short fuse
when he was on a bender.
He'd beat the shit out of me
every time the Padres lost.
and trust me.
the Padres lost a lot.
I'm sorry.
Hmm. Don't be.
This isn't about them.
We're better than them.
and this is how we show it.
Now get out of my face and get some rest.
We're on at 0600.
- You good?
- Yes. sergeant.
Let's go over
the EVA supply checklist.
Twenty bottles O2.
Lambda phage genome DNA.
3.6 kb enolase 2 RNA 25.
Goddamn it.
This is...
Why did this...
I don't understand what is happening.
Give me a minute. Keep going.
Walt.
Hey. Kelly.
I think I might be
getting close to something here.
The. uh. the signal pathways check out.
but there may be transmission errors
between the CPU and the guidance systems.
- That's good.
- Yeah.
So. are you guys. uh...
Are you guys almost ready to disembark?
Not quite.
Is there something wrong with the rover?
No. it's the team.
What is it?
They're all incredibly qualified.
You selected the best
of the best for this mission.
- Thank you.
- But it just so happens
that we also have
the foremost expert on Titan
right here with us. not to mention
the best exobiologist I've ever met.
And as the acting commander
on this mission.
I'd be negligent if I just
allowed him to sit this one out.
- Kelly. I told you. I'm...
- You put me in command.
so the EVA crew is my call.
You're coming with us.
We're leaving in 30 minutes. Suit up.
- Kelly. I'm just... I have...
- That's an order. Griebel.
Gets a little lonely out here
at the reactor sometimes.
Music helps me get through it.
But...
...with everything going on lately.
I've been feeling more inspired
to write about stuff. you know?
Like. uh. how we want more say in things.
How we're sick and tired of them trying
to hold us down like we don't matter.
- Sometimes I...
- Oh. shit. Um...
The battery's almost dead.
I think I should change it.
Was that okay?
Oh. my God. that was amazing.
When did you write that. Ollie?
Been working on it for a few weeks now.
Thank you for sharing that.
Um. actually. Lils.
I think we should probably head back.
The-The duster's kicking up.
Really? I wanted to interview Haldir.
Sure. Uh. let's just check how it is
out there first and then we can decide.
- Okay.
- Okay. Cool.
Nice and slow. Easy does it.
Oh. careful.
We just need to make sure that the
needle stays in the green or the yellow
until we get through the storm top
right there in the mesosphere.
It's. uh. 40 klicks up.
Piece of cake. huh?
Yeah. piece of cake.
MOCC. Hopper 1.
How's the storm looking?
Hopper 1.
Gonna get a whole lot worse
before it gets better.
We're seeing lightning activity
in the upper atmosphere.
Wind now two-seven-zero at five-zero.
All right. Well.
be sure you're secured to the platform
before you turn that thing on.
Godspeed.
MOCC. Hopper 1. Ready for launch.
Hopper 1. you are cleared for launch.
Helium pressure is nominal.
Primary fuel valves open.
Green indicators.
Clear to start.
Ignition armed.
Good indicators.
You ready for this?
Ignition.
Hopper 1.
I saw your vibration level
in the warning zone. but holding steady.
How they doing?
They're three minutes to the storm top.
but it's about to get trickier.
Wind's rising.
Now two-three-zero at six-five.
They're hitting the densest part
of the storm.
The turbulence is going to get even worse.
- Oh. shit.
- What was that?
We're oscillating.
MOCC. I think
we were hit by lightning.
Thrusters are slow responding.
and we're starting to wobble.
Vibrations are getting worse. Hold steady.
Lightning may have jacked
their electrical attitude control.
They may be headed into a feedback loop.
Hopper 1.
try cycling the thruster bus to aux.
That may discharge the static.
You want us to restart our engines
in the middle of a dust storm?
Affirmative.
Copy that. Cycling the thrusters.
Come on.
you can do it. come on. Lenya.
- Velocity is dropping.
- Come on.
Attempting restart
on main engines.
This better work.
Come on.
MOCC. we are losing altitude.
Shaking is getting worse.
Come on. come on.
Thrusters responding.
Shaking is calming down.
We're almost there.
What a fucking ride. huh?
You are ready to be a cosmonaut.
MOCC. Hopper 1 is back online.
On track for orbit insertion.
Rendezvous maneuvering
to Kuznetsov Station in progress.
I'm going radio silent
until we reach the landing spot.
Copy that.
Hopper 1 out.
Condor. Marine 1. status.
Marine 1.
Condor is clear of the structure.
Going dark at exfil point alpha.
Copy. Hallway two-bravo is clear
and we are commencing
sweep of the station.
Haskell. you and Fleming
sweep the next corridor.
Me and Tabasco will take this route.
We'll meet at the rally point.
Copy that.
See you on the other side.
AJ. take point.
Control complex to the right.
Yes. sarge.
MOCC.
Hopper 1 on its final approach.
Copy that. Let us
know when you get to the evac hopper.
Two meters.
We have contact.
Transfer tunnel extending.
We have hard dock.
I'm just going to dim the lights
so our eyes can adjust.
All right. Now you can breathe.
Not while I'm still in
the same room as those fuckers.
Yeah. let's get the hell out
of here to the evac hopper.
Timer set.
Clear.
What the fuck?
Sarge. we've got another
spacecraft docked out there.
That wasn't there on approach.
Shit. we may have company.
Haskell. Ruiz.
We got eyes on a Marsie
hopper docked at a platform.
What's your twenty?
Ruiz. Haskell.
East corridor. all clear.
Copy. Jarrett and I are
gonna get a closer look at this.
- You ready?
- Yes. sergeant.
Clear.
Shit. Ruiz.
We need to get the fuck out of here.
Move. Go.
Marines. this is Ruiz.
Everybody report to exfil point alpha.
Condor. we need to get the fuck off
this platform in the next three minutes
or we are toast. There is a bomb.
Repeat. there's a bomb.
Docking clamps off.
- What is that?
- What?
Oh. no.
MOCC. there are soldiers on the platform.
Boyd. repeat.
It looks like
there are soldiers on site.
You said they were still two hours away.
She's right.
We're picking up scrambled radio traffic
on M-6 frequency from Kuznetsov.
Abort... Abort the detonation.
We can't.
The dam is above the hopper.
We'll never get back there in time.
Is there any way to stop
the detonator remotely?
Any M-6 units
in the vicinity of Kuznetsov.
the platform is about to blow.
Clear off now.
Repeat. clear off now.
- What are you doing?
- We have to warn them.
Celia. we've got 30 seconds for you
to get us out of here or we're dead.
Move.
Move your ass.
MOCC. evac Hopper 1.
The platform is gone.
I don't think there are any survivors.